1. Did Your project include microservices
2. what is the difference between monolithic and microservice architecture.
3. you are aware of HTTP status code.
4. Suppose you are getting 400 status code what is that state.
5. what is put and post you understand by
6. what is the updation like Java8 to Java11(new features).
7. what was enhancement and do you aware of Java8
8. Can we have generic functional interface.
9. Are you aware of functionality of containers, kubernates, dockers
10. In spring what did you exactly used
11. Are you aware of mvc
12. What is @RequestBody have you used these annotations
13. what annotation did you used in your projects.
14. what is the use of @path variable, @controller, @component, @repository, @service
15. this and super can you use both in a constructor.
16. do you know what object clonning is
----------------------------------
1.what you use whether is it monolithic or microservice architecture.
2.How we are validating through API.
3.how we are validating data which we are getting through API
4.Through rest we are creating new client. client have data like name, id, mobile no. On mobile number we are proving some text so how you validate it.
5.If end point required 20 field then how how will be validate this.
6.How will be authenticate the user.
7.what if there is only one point so from there how to validate the user.
8.Are you aware of aspect oriented programming(AOP).
9.Why we use actuator and how can we use for maintaining the things.
10.what database you worked on. Any specific reason to choose mysql.
11.what is CI/CD, quality and management tool. which CI/CD tool you are working ON currently.
12.how will you manage resourses in multithreaded environment.
13.can you give some concreate example with programming.
14.if we are trying to extend a interface more than one class what will happen.
15.for example a particular end point restricted for a particular role. how to restrict that one. 
-----------------------------
1.what is interface in java
2.can u relate interfaces to any collection classes.
3.Have you heard about functional interfaces & why is it used
4. have worked on database part. why we use hybernate instead of JDBC.
5.Disadvantages of hybernate.
6.HTTP methods in rest api
7.why we need different HTTP method
8. Is there any specific case where we use get Method
9.you worked on different design patterns can you differentiate these design pattern
10. what is most challenging part you faced in your last 2 years & you overcome that
11.Can you  tell me real time example 
12. How do you stay updated with latest technology
13. do you have any expectation regarding technology.
