Ever faced an HR interview before? In case you haven’t, I am sure that you might face one soon enough.

In order to help you prepare, we have curated this blog which covers some of the most frequently asked HR interview questions and answers.

Tell me something about yourself in brief
Describe who you are? or Tell me about your background.
What are your strengths and weaknesses?
You have not done your PG yet. This is not a drawback, but don’t you think you should get a PG degree asap?
You have changed jobs/jumped ship too many times already, why so?
What are your strong points? or What are your strengths?
What is your greatest fear?
If I call up your current or previous reporting manager now, what will be their opinion about you? What will they say that you need to work on?
Do you have any serious medical issues?
Did you ever have a conflict with your current/previous boss or professor?
What do your friends/co-workers say about you?
What did you do in the last year to improve your knowledge?
Explain the difference between group and team. Are you a team player?
What is your ideal company or workplace?
Have you ever had to fire anyone? How did you feel about that?
What is the most difficult thing that you’ve ever accomplished? or What is the most difficult thing you have ever done?
What is the difference between hard work and smart work?
How do you feel about working weekends and night shifts?
Where do you see yourself 3 years from now? or Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
Give an example of a time you had to respond to an unhappy manager/ customer/ colleague/ professor/ friend.
How quickly do you adapt to new technology?
What software packages are you familiar with?
On a scale of 1 to 10 how would you rate yourself as a leader?
What makes you angry?
Are you open to take risks? or Do you like experimenting?
What are your future goals? Tell me about your short term and long-term goals.
What motivates you?
What are your hobbies? or What are you passionate about?
What are your biggest achievements till date?
What are you most proud of?
What has been your greatest failure?
What do you always regret? or Do you have any regrets?
How do you respond to change?
Are you demanding as a boss?
Are you an organized person?
Can you describe your time management skills?
What’s your absenteeism record like?
Are you reliable? or Can I trust you with responsibilities?
What are the three things that are most important for you in a job?
What was the toughest decision you ever had to make?
If you won a Rs.10-crore lottery, would you still work?
Give me an example of your creativity.
What makes you happy?
How do you work under pressure? Can you handle the pressure?
Are you willing to relocate or travel?
What do you know about us or our company?
How long do you think you will work for us after we hire you?
Are you applying for other jobs? Do you have any other offer in hand?
Why do you want to work for us or our company? or Why do you want this job?
Do you know anyone who works for us?
Why should we hire you? or Why should I hire you?
What are your salary expectations?
Do you have a good work ethic?
How do you deal with feedback and criticism?
Why do you want to leave your current job?
Your interview is more or less coming to an end when the interviewer asks you, “Do you have any questions for me?”
