
Top PL/SQL Interview Questions
What is PL/SQL?
What is the basic structure of PL/SQL?
What are the components of a PL/SQL Block?
What are the data types a available in PL/SQL?
Is there a limit on the size of a PL/SQL block?
What is the difference between Anonymous blocks and sub programs?
Can SQL group functions be used within the procedural statements?
How is global variable declared within a nested block?
What is the maximum length of an identifier that can be used?
What are the different data types that can be defined in a PL/SQL block?
What is the difference between SQL and PL/SQL?
What are the advantages of PL/SQL?.
What is an anonymous block and how is it executed?
What are the mandatory keywords in a PL/SQL program block?
What are Transaction Control statements? Can they be used within the PL/SQL block?
How can you display data from a PL/SQL block?
What PL/SQL supports?
Different types of PL/SQL blocks?
What is the structure of PL/SQL block?
What are %TYPE and % ROWTYPE?
What are the advantages of using %TYPE & %ROWTYPE data types?
Difference between %TYPE and %ROWTYPE?
What is Bind variable?
What is Cursor?
Explain Types of cursors?
Explain How CURSOR FOR LOOP works?
What are the PL/SQL Statements used in cursor processing?
What are the cursor attributes used in PL/SQL?
What is WHERE CURRENT OF clause?
Can we pass parameter to a cursor what are the advantages?
How can you find a cursor is opened or not in PL/SQL block?
What is a cursor for loop?
Can you pass a parameter to a cursor?
Can you use %Rowcount as a parameter to a cursor?
What is implicit cursor in Oracle?
What are the Implicit Cursor Attributes?
How is it possible to fetch a current row from a cursor without using ROWID?
How can you check if an UPDATE statement in PL/SQL is successfully executed?
What is the value of SQL%FOUND attribute after & before an INSERT statement executed?
What are the different ways to determine the status of a cursor?
What will be the value of %N0TF0UND attribute after a cursor is opened?
Why does SQL%ISOPEN always returns the FALSE value?
How can explicit cursors be used to fetch multiple rows?
What is FOR UPDATE clause?
What is Ref Cursor?
Difference between Cursor and Ref Cursor?
Difference between Strong and Weak Ref cursor?
Can cursor variables be stored in PL/SQL tables? If yes how. If not why?
What is Exception in Oracle?
Explain the types of Exceptions?
What are the predefined oracle exceptions?
Explain user defined exceptions in oracle. ?
How User defined Exceptions Are Raised?
Explain the guidelines for Avoiding and Handling PL/SQL Errors and Exceptions?
What is Pragma Init Exception in oracle?
What is Raise_application_error?
What are the return values of functions SQLCODE and SQLERRM?
Can we define exceptions twice in same block?
What are PL/SQL Cursor Exceptions?
Can the PL/SQL block process more than one exception at a time?
Is it possible to have more than one OTHERS clause?
What causes the INVALID_CURSOR exception?
Where will the control be transferred if an exception is raised with in block?
What is the advantage of OTHERS exception handler?
When is the CURSOR_ALREADY_OPEN exception raised?
What is the advantage of having a separate exception section within a PL/SQL code?
What happen when there is no handler for a raised exception?
What is the difference between user-defined exceptions and Oracle-defined exceptions?
What is the difference between RAISE and RAISE_APPLICATION_ERROR?
What is Collection?
Explain collection types. i.e. Index-by tables, Nested tables, Varrays?
What is the difference between the cursor and pl/sql table?
How we can delete the specific record and all records from the pl/sql table.
What is the Nested table?
What is bulk collect? Explain?
What is the Difference between PL/SQL Table & Nested Table?
How Bulk Binding improve performance?
How does Bulk Binding Work with SELECT or FETCH Statement?
Why sometime it is necessary to use LIMIT clause in Bulk Binding?
Is there a limit on the size of a PL/SQL block?
What is a stored procedure?
What are advantages of Stored Procedures?
What are the modes of parameters that can be passed to a procedure?
What is Overloading of procedures?
What are actual and formal parameters?
What are the types of Notation?
How can you use pseudo-columns in procedural statements?
When does a subprogram need recompilation?
Which data types can be used for parameters within a procedure?
Can stand-alone programs be overloaded?
Is it Procedure Return values or Not ?
How can a parameter be initialized in a procedure?
Can default values be assigned to IN OUT parameters in a procedure?
Can DDL commands be used within a procedure? If so, then how?
What is the scope of the procedure defined within a PL/SQL block?
Which privileges are required to execute a subprogram owned by another user?
What happens if an exception is unhandled within a procedure?
What is the significance of AUTHID property while creating a procedure?
How can a compiled object code be viewed?
Can an IN parameter be assigned a value within a procedure?.
What are default parameter passing methods?
What is NOCOPY hint?
What is difference between a PROCEDURE & FUNCTION?
Explain how procedures and functions are called in a PL/SQL block?
Can you have two functions with the same name in a PL/SQL block?
Can you have two stored functions with the same name?
Can you call a stored function in the constraint of a table?
What is Over Loading and what are its restrictions?
Can functions be over loaded?
Can 2 functions have same name & input parameters but differ only by return data type?
Can there be multiple RETURN statements within a function?
Can BOOLEAN data type be used in functions that are called from SQL statements?
When should a procedure and a function be used?
How can the text of a procedure or function specification be viewed?
What are the different parameter modes, which can be used in the function specification?
Can you invoke a stored function or procedure from the Oracle Forms in the database?
Can a function be defined without a RETURN statement?
How can the parameter list for a function or procedure be displayed?
What is the meaning of ORA-06575: Package or function func_test is in an invalid state?
What are the restrictions on functions that are called within SQL statements?
How can you debug a procedure or function for errors?
Explain PRAGMA AUTONOMOUS_TRANSACTION?
What is Package?
What are the advantages of creating packages?
List some Oracle supplied Packages?
What are the Disadvantages of packages?
How PL/SQL supports Polymorphism?
What are the rules of writing package?
Mention what PL/SQL package consists of?
Explain the difference between a FUNCTION, PROCEDURE and PACKAGE?
How do you make a Function and Procedure as a Private?
How can you generate debugging output from PL/SQL?
Can you pass parameters in packages? How?
What is a package spec and package body? Why the separation?
What is UTL_File package?
How many types of functions in UTL_FILE package?
Can we load the data from table to table through utl_file package?
Difference b/w sql*loader and utl_file package?
What function you are using to load the data in UTL_FILE package?
What are the exceptions are there in utl_file?
What is trigger in oracle?
What are the types of triggers?
What are triggering attributes?
Disadvantages of trigger in oracle?
Difference between trigger and stored procedure
Explain Row level and statement level triggers?
What are cascading triggers?
What is compound triggers ?
How many types of database triggers can be specified on a table? What are they?
Is it possible to use TCL Statements such a ROLLBACK or COMMIT in Database Trigger?
Write the order of precedence for validation of a column in a table?
What are the values of :new and :old in Insert/Delete/Update Triggers ?
What are mutating triggers?
What are constraining triggers?
What are schema-level triggers?
Does a USER_OBJECTS view have an entry for a trigger?
What are the system privileges that are required by a schema to create a trigger on a table?
What is a database event trigger?
How can you view the errors encountered in a trigger?
In what condition is it good to disable a trigger?
Does USER_TRIGGERS have entry for triggers with compilation errors?
How can triggers be used for the table auditing
What are INSTEAD OF triggers?
Is it possible to pass parameters to triggers?
Can triggers stop a DML statement from executing on a table
Can a SELECT statement fire a trigger?
How can the performance of a trigger be improved?
Can a view be mutating? If yes, then how?
What are the events on which a database trigger can be based?
What is a mutating table?
Do triggers have restrictions on the usage of large data types, such as LONG & LONG RAW?
Which data dictionary views have the information on the triggers that are available in db?
Share this post FacebookTwitterLinkedInGoogle +Email
Register for Course !
Learn from the Real-Time Experts
Name*
