Hi Team,
#Letest  #update  #Real_Time
#oracle #pl/Sql #interview #questions #Answer 3+ #experience 2020
Q.Write an SQL Query to check whether date passed to Query is the date of given format or not
Q.Write an SQL Query to print the name of the distinct employee whose DOB is between 01/01/1960 to 31/12/1975.
Q.Write an SQL Query find number of employees according to gender  whose DOB is between 01/01/1960 to 31/12/1975.
Q.Write an SQL Query to find an employee whose Salary is equal or greater than 10000.
Q.find all Employee records containing the word "Joe", regardless of whether it was stored as JOE, Joe, or joe.
Q.Write an SQL Query to find name of employee whose name Start with ‘M’
Q.There is a table which contains two column Student and Marks, you need to find all the students, whose marks are greater than average marks i.e. list of above average students.
Q.How do you find all employees which are also manager?
Q.You have a composite index of three columns, and you only provide the value of two columns in WHERE clause of a select query? Will Index be used for this operation?
Q.Describe Oracle database’s physical and logical structure ?
Q.What is “Check Constraints” and “with check options” and “Default Specification”?
Q.What is the maximum no. Of columns a table can have ?
Q.Describe hit ratio as it pertains to the database buffers. What is the difference between instantaneous and cumulative hit ratio and which should be used for tuning?
Q.What are SQLCODE and SQLERRM and why are they important for PL/SQL developers?
Q.What is a mutating table error and how can you get around it?
Q.What are Transactional Triggers ? Give the uses of Transational Trigger ?
Q.What is Autonomous transaction ? Where do we use it?
Q.What are cascading triggers? What is the maximum no of cascading triggers at a time?
Q.What is the significance of the & and && operators in PL/SQL ?
Q.If all the values from a cursor have been fetched and another fetch is issued, the output will be?
Q.Describe the use of %ROWTYPE and %TYPE in PL/SQL.
Q.What is difference between TRUNCATE & DELETE?
Q.Difference between view and materialized view.
Q.Difference between procedure and function?
Q.Difference between procedure and function?
Q.What is explicit and implicit cursor and examples?
Q.What do u understand by database and what is objects in oracle
Q.What is a table, view, snapshot?
Q.Do a view contain data?
Q.What is a join? Explain the different types of joins?
Q.Difference between SUBSTR and INSTR?What is difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2? What is the maximum SIZE allowed for each type?
Q.How to access the current value and next value from a sequence?
Q.What are the components of physical database structure of Oracle database?
Q.Query to delete duplicate row from a table
Q.Select nth highest value from a list of values ?
Q.What is the maximum number of triggers, can apply to a single table?
Q.Difference between rowid and rownum?
Q.What is Referential Integrity and Referential integrity constraint ?
Q.What are Advantages of TRUNCATE Command over DELETE/DROP TABLE Command ?
Q.What are steps involved in Execution of SQL statements?
